
Google Cloud Fundamentals: Getting Started with Compute Engine

Objectives

In this lab, you will learn how to perform the following tasks:
Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.
Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface.
Connect between the two instances.


Task 1: Create a virtual machine using the GCP Console

Create an Instance with assigned region and zone,
default machine type,
boot disk -debian GNU?Linux 9 (stretch),
defaults Identity and API Access and 
allow HHTP traffic and Leave all other defaults unmodified.

In GCP console, on the top right toolbar, click the Open Cloud Shell button.

1.  Set the zone with this command

			gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-a

2.  To create a VM instance called my-vm-1 in that zone, execute this command:

			gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-1" --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud" --image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213" --subnet "default" --tags http

3. To Allow HTTP traffic.

			gcloud compute firewall-rules creat allow.http --action=ALLOW --destination=INGRESS --rules=http:80 --target-tags=http

Task 2:  Create a virtual machine using in location 2

4.  To set your default zone 2

			gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b

5. To create a VM instance called my-vm-2 in that zone, execute this command:

			gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-2" --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud" --image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213" --subnet "default"

6. To close the Cloud Shell, execute the following command:

			exit

Task 4: Connect between the two VM instances

7. connect to my-vm-2
	
			gcloud compute ssh my-vm-2

8.  Use the ping command to confirm that my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the network:
			ping my-vm-1

9. Press Ctrl+C to abort the ping command.

10. Use the command to connect my-vm-1:
			ssh my-vm-1

11. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, install the Nginx web server:

			sudo apt-get install nginx-light -y

12. Use the nano text editor to add a custom message to the home page of the web server:

			sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html

13.  Use the arrow keys to move the cursor to the line just below the h1 header. Add text like this, and replace YOUR_NAME with your name:

			Hi from Bonne

14.  Press Ctrl+O and then press Enter to save your edited file, and then press Ctrl+X to exit the nano text editor.

15.  Confirm that the web server is serving your new page. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

			curl http://localhost/

16.  To exit the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

			exit

17. To confirm that my-vm-2 can reach the web server on my-vm-1, at the command prompt on my-vm-2, execute this command:

			curl http://my-vm-1/

18. Copy the External IP address for my-vm-1 and paste it into the address bar of a new browser tab. You will see your web server's home page, including your custom text.

Congratulations